checking file difference in Windows, to find bugs and changes

fc old_file_name new_file_name

start notepad++ using : start notepad++ file_name

an easy access to entire history can help you revert some of the unneccessary changes


git log .. shows all the changes done in the directory

git diff ... shows difference between two commit IDs

git log --stat  ... shows statistics

git log shows the commits in descending order ... new commits on top older commits on bottom

git clone ... to copy directory 
keep commits small .. per logical change

git checkout ...switch to older commit and check if a bug was introduced in this commit

git bash profile .. to setup git bash profile .. (colors / fonts etc.)

git init ... initialize git repository in an existing directory

git status .. shows changes since the last commit

//staging area .. tracks the files to be changed


git cmmit message style guide
Type : subject
body 
footer
types --> feat, fix, docs, style, refactor, test, chore
http://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/

Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?
changes in 1 file might affect the other files in Git repository 

How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?
Git Log shows the history of all the files and Git Diff can be used to show difference between 2 files

How might using version control make you more confident to make changes that could break something?
Version Control would make me more confident as I know that my changes can be replaced

Now that you have your workspace set up, what do you want to try using Git for?
Save a project and collaborate with other people

What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
On initializing a repository, the Git metadata is stored in .git folder .. It is required to let git start tracking the changes occuring in that directory.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
Staging Area is like a temporary directory which has all the files you need to track.